Add device runtime update and reattestation. (#41)
riscv-non-isa/riscv-ap-tee-io: specification/08-attestation.adoc

according to the device root CA certificate and CRL, and then compares the
device measurement with the measurement from its locally provisioned RIM.

> The TVM may have a local policy update mechanism to update the enforsement and

Author: thanks. Done

reference value. How to trigger the update is out of scope of this specification.

> It could be a pull model, such as TVM querying every week. Or it could be a push

Author: done

| Verifier Location               | Inside of TVM         | Inside of TVM or Remove Service
|===

==== Device Runtime Update and Reattestation

A TEE-IO device may support runtime update. Currently, there are two policy
settings controlling device runtime update.

> 1. SPDM Session `TerminationPolicy`

Author: done

> It controls if runtime update will cause SPDM session termination or device may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This SPDM session attribute controls if runtime update will cause SPDM session termination or device may
```

Author: done

> keep the session. NOTE: The session termination means the IDE stream will
> change to `insecure` state and TDI in `ERROR` state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keep the session. 

> **Note**
> The session termination means the IDE stream will change to `insecure` state and TDI in `ERROR` state.
```

Author: done

The SPDM `TerminationPolicy` is set in SPDM `KEY_EXCHANGE` message by
TSM. The TSM should return such policy information to the TVM via

> `sbi_covg_get_device_spdm_attrs()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `sbi_covg_get_device_spdm_attrs()` `COVG` ABI.
```

Author: done

> 2. TDISP `NO_FW_UPDATE`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== TDISP `NO_FW_UPDATE`
```

Author: done

> It controls if runtime update is allowed after TDI in `CONFIG_LOCKED` or `RUN`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This TDISP interface attribute controls if runtime update is allowed after TDI is in either `CONFIG_LOCKED` or `RUN`
```

Author: done

> state. NOTE: Runtime update is always allowed if TDI is in `CONFIG_UNLOCKED`
> or `ERROR`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
state. 

> **Note** 
> Runtime update is always allowed if TDI is in either `CONFIG_UNLOCKED` or `ERROR`.
```

Author: done

The TDISP `NO_FW_UPDATE` is set in TDISP `LOCK_INTERFACE_REPORT` message by TSM,
and is returned in BIT0 of `INTERFACE_INFO` in `TDI Report Structure` by
the device. The TVM can get the full `TDI Report Structure` via
`sbi_covg_get_interface_report()`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
```

Author: done

The TVM should consult both setting to decide if it can accept the device
runtime update.

> If the TVM allows the device runtimea after lock (`NO_FW_UPDATE`=0) and update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the TVM allows the device runtime update after lock (`NO_FW_UPDATE`=0) and update
```

Author: done

without session termination (`TerminationPolicy`=1), then the TVM may want to

> do attestation again to verify the device. There are 2 possible models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
do attestation again to verify the device. 

There are 2 possible models:
```

Author: done

> 1. Post-update reattestation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== Post-update reattestation
```

Author: done

> After the device performs the update, TVM will collect certificate and
> measurement again and do verification again to determine if the TVM still wants
> to accept the device. If the TVM decides to not accept the device any more, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the device performs the update, the TVM will collect both the certificate and
the measurement and do verification again to determine if it still wants
to accept the device. If the TVM decides to no longer accept the device, the
```

Author: done

TVM will communicate with VMM and ask for `sbi_covh_unbind_interface()`, then

> verify with TSM if the TDI is really unbound by the VMM.

Reviewer: I think we need to define if that would be covered by the `sbi_covg_stop_interface` ABI or if we need to add a `sbi_covg_unbind_interface()` for the TVM to request the VMM to do the unbind.

I guess we need to identify the use cases for having a TVM calling `sbi_covg_stop_interface` without willing to be unbound from the TDI.

Author: Done. Add sbi_covg_stop_interface() in the text.

How the device performs the update is out of scope of this specification.
It could be initiated by current TVM, other TVMs, other legacy VMs, VMM, or even
out of band (OOB) mechanism, such as Baseboard Management Controller (BMC).

> When the TVM performs the reattesttion is also out of scope of this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the TVM performs the reattestation is also out of scope of this
```

Author: thanks. done

specification. It could be a pull mode with policy inside of TVM, such as
reattestation every week. Or it could be an interrupt mode such as request
triggered by the orchestrator.

> 2. Pre-update attestation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== Pre-update attestation
```

Author: done

> With post-update reattestation, there is a gap between update time and
> attestation time. Since PCIe TDISP requires the secure device firmware update,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With post-update reattestation, there is a gap between update time and
attestation time. Confidential data access from the TDI may happen before the updated device is re-attested and re-accepted by the TVM.

Since PCIe TDISP requires the secure device firmware update,
```

Author: done

> there should be no security concern, but TVM policy concern.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I fully understand your point here.

I understand where the gap is, but not the last part of the sentence.

Author: I removed last sentence. I think your update is a better description.

SPDM 1.3 added an optional event mechanism and `MeasurementPreUpdate` event
notification. If the device, TSM and TVM all support SPDM 1.3, the TVM may get
the `MeasurementPreUpdate` event notification and verify the measurement before
the update takes effect. If the TVM cannot accept the new measurement, then the
TVM can unbind the TDI before runtime update.

The difference between this pre-update attestation and reattestation is that

> if the update takes effect when the verification happens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the update takes effect when the verification happens.
```
